# Render passes

> [Apple Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/render-passes?language=objc)

## Overview

A render pass processes and rasterizes geometry to one or more output attachments using a render pipeline.

Render passes consist of:

A set of input resources, such as buffers and textures

A render pipeline that configures the GPU that does work with the input resources

Draw commands

Vertex shaders, the GPU core functions that process and transform a scene’s geometry

An optional tessellation stage that adds fine details to a scene’s geometry

Fragment shaders, the GPU core functions that produce the final color values for each pixel

Optional outputs that can include color, depth, and stencil attachments, and their load and store operations

See the Customizing render pass setup sample for implementation details.

Encoding a render pass
MTL4RenderCommandEncoder
Encodes configuration and draw commands for a single render pass into a command buffer.
MTLRenderCommandEncoder
Encodes configuration and draw commands for a single render pass into a command buffer.
MTL4RenderEncoderOptions
Custom render pass options you specify at encoder creation time.
MTLTriangleFillMode
Specifies how to rasterize triangle and triangle strip primitives.
MTLWinding
The vertex winding rule that determines a front-facing primitive.
MTLCullMode
The mode that determines whether to perform culling and which type of primitive to cull.
MTLPrimitiveType
The geometric primitive type for drawing commands.
MTLIndexType
The index type for an index buffer that references vertices of geometric primitives.
MTLDepthClipMode
The mode that determines how to deal with fragments outside of the near or far planes.
MTLVisibilityResultMode
The mode that determines what, if anything, the GPU writes to the results buffer, after the GPU executes the render pass.
MTLVisibilityResultType
This enumeration controls if Metal accumulates visibility results between render encoders or resets them.
Encoding a render pass in parallel
MTLParallelRenderCommandEncoder
An instance that splits up a single render pass so that it can be simultaneously encoded from multiple threads.
MTLLoadAction
Types of actions performed for an attachment at the start of a rendering pass.
MTLStoreAction
Types of actions performed for an attachment at the end of a rendering pass.
MTLStoreActionOptions
Options that modify a store action.
Configuring a render command encoder
MTL4RenderPassDescriptor
Describes a render pass.
MTLRenderPassDescriptor
A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.
MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor
A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.
MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray
An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.
MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor
A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.
MTLClearColor
An RGBA value used for a color pixel.
MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor
A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.
MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter
Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.
MTL4RenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray
An array of color attachment descriptions for a render pipeline.
MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray
An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.
MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor
A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.
MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter
Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.
MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray
An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.
MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor
A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.
MTLLogicalToPhysicalColorAttachmentMap
Allows you to easily specify color attachment remapping from logical to physical indices.
MTLDispatchThreadsIndirectArguments
Render pipeline states
MTLRenderPipelineState
An interface that represents a graphics pipeline configuration for a render pass, which the pass applies to the draw commands you encode.
MTL4RenderPipelineDescriptor
Groups together properties to create a render pipeline state object.
MTLRenderPipelineDescriptor
An argument of options you pass to a GPU device to get a render pipeline state.
MTLRenderPipelineFunctionsDescriptor
A collection of functions for updating a render pipeline.
MTL4MeshRenderPipelineDescriptor
Groups together properties you use to create a mesh render pipeline state object.
MTLMeshRenderPipelineDescriptor
An object that configures new render pipeline state objects for mesh shading.
MTLPipelineBufferDescriptor
The mutability options for a buffer that a render or compute pipeline uses.
MTLPipelineBufferDescriptorArray
An array of pipeline buffer descriptors.
MTL4RenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptor
MTLRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptor
A color render target that specifies the color configuration and color operations for a render pipeline.
MTLRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray
An array of render pipeline color attachment descriptor objects.
MTL4TileRenderPipelineDescriptor
Groups together properties you use to create a tile render pipeline state object.
MTLTileRenderPipelineDescriptor
An object that configures new render pipeline state objects for tile shading.
MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptor
A description of a tile-shading render pipeline’s color render target.
MTLPipelineOption
Options that determine how Metal prepares the pipeline.
MTL4RenderPipelineBinaryFunctionsDescriptor
Allows you to specify additional binary functions to link to each stage of a render pipeline.
MTL4RenderPipelineDynamicLinkingDescriptor
Groups together properties that provide linking properties for render pipelines.
Dynamic render pipeline states
MTLViewport
A 3D rectangular region for the viewport clipping.
MTLScissorRect
A rectangle for the scissor fragment test.
MTLVertexAmplificationViewMapping
An offset applied to a render target index and viewport index.
MTLQuadTessellationFactorsHalf
The per-patch tessellation factors for a quad patch.
MTLTriangleTessellationFactorsHalf
The per-patch tessellation factors for a triangle patch.
Render pass inputs
MTLVertexDescriptor
An instance that describes how to organize and map data to a vertex function.
MTLVertexAttributeDescriptor
An object that determines how to store attribute data in memory and map it to the arguments of a vertex function.
MTLVertexAttributeDescriptorArray
An array of vertex attribute descriptor instances.
MTLVertexBufferLayoutDescriptor
An object that configures how a render pipeline fetches data to send to the vertex function.
MTLVertexBufferLayoutDescriptorArray
An array of vertex buffer layout descriptor instances.
MTLBufferLayoutStrideDynamic
Render pass outputs
MTLDrawable
A displayable resource that can be rendered or written to.
MTLDrawablePresentedHandler
A block of code invoked after a drawable is presented.
Depth testing
Calculating primitive visibility using depth testing
Determine which pixels are visible in a scene by using a depth texture.
MTLDepthStencilState
A depth and stencil state instance that specifies the depth and stencil configuration and operations used in a render pass.
MTLDepthStencilDescriptor
An instance that configures new MTLDepthStencilState instances.
MTLStencilDescriptor
An object that defines the front-facing or back-facing stencil operations of a depth and stencil state object.
Rasterization settings
Rendering at different rasterization rates
Configure a rasterization rate map to vary rasterization rates depending on the amount of detail needed.
Creating a rasterization rate map
Define the rasterization rates for each part of your render target.
Rendering with a rasterization rate map
Create offscreen textures to hold intermediate rasterized data.
Scaling variable rasterization rate content
Use the rate map data to scale the content to fill your destination texture.
MTLRasterizationRateMapDescriptor
An object that you use to configure new rasterization rate maps.
MTLRasterizationRateMap
A compiled read-only instance that determines how to apply variable rasterization rates when rendering.
MTLCoordinate2D
A coordinate in the viewport.
MTLCoordinate2DMake
Returns a new 2D point with the specified coordinates.
Optimizing techniques
Specifying drawing and dispatch arguments indirectly
Use indirect commands if you don’t know your draw or dispatch call arguments when you encode the command.
Rendering to multiple viewports in a draw command
Select viewports and their corresponding scissor rectangles in your vertex shader.
Rendering to multiple texture slices in a draw command
Select a destination texture slice in your vertex shader.
Advanced multisampling
Positioning samples programmatically
Configure the position of samples when rendering to a multisampled render target.
Storing data a pass makes with custom sample positions for a subsequent pass
Inform Metal when your app uses programmable sample positions for its depth render targets or copies MSAA depth data.
Applying rendering techniques
Drawing a triangle with Metal 4
Render a colorful, rotating 2D triangle by running draw commands with a render pipeline on a GPU.
Customizing render pass setup
Render into an offscreen texture by creating a custom render pass.
Setting load and store actions
Set actions that define how a render pass loads and stores a render target.
Improving rendering performance with vertex amplification
Run draw commands that render to different outputs using the same vertex data multiple times.
See Also
Command encoders
Compute passes
Encode a compute pass that runs computations in parallel on a thread grid, processing and manipulating Metal resource data on multiple cores of a GPU.
Machine-learning passes
Add machine-learning model inference to your Metal app’s GPU workflow.
Blit passes
Encode a block information transfer pass to adjust and copy data to and from GPU resources, such as buffers and textures.
Indirect command encoding
Store draw commands in Metal buffers and run them at a later time on the GPU, either once or repeatedly.
Ray tracing with acceleration structures
Build a representation of your scene’s geometry using triangles and bounding volumes to quickly trace rays through the scene.
Apple
TestFlight
Xcode
Xcode Cloud
SF Symbols
Accessibility
Accessories
App Extension
App Store
Audio & Video
Augmented Reality
Distribution
Education
Fonts
Games
Health & Fitness
In-App Purchase
Localization
Maps & Location
Machine Learning & AI
Open Source
Security
Safari & Web
Resources
Tutorials
Downloads
Forums
Videos
Contact Us
Bug Reporting
System Status
App Store Connect
Certificates, IDs, & Profiles
Feedback Assistant
Programs
App Store Small Business Program
MFi Program
Video Partner Program
Security Bounty Program
Security Research Device Program
Events
Meet with Apple
App Store Awards
WWDC
